Hands on ML with Scikit Learn and Tensorflow  (Chapter - 8)

Curse of Dimensionality :
	- For each training instance  : Millions of features
	- Training is too slow
	- Finding a good solution is difficult
	- High dimensional data are at a risk of being sparse
	- More Dimension is More risk of Overfitting

Approaches for Reducing Dimension 
A) Projection : This is using the assumption that many features are constant or highly correlated with each other.
This cant be applied to subspace which twist and turn eg. Swiss Roll
B) Manifold Learning : Based on assumption that Most real world high dimensional dataset can be modelled to a much lower dimensional manifold.
Though reducing dimension through manifold can reduce the training time but doesn't guarantee best solutions after training.


PCA : Identifies the hyperplane closest to the data -> projects the data onto it

A) Choosing the correct Hyperplane
Select the one which preserves the maximum variance

B) Principal components 
Axis of highest variance is identified, then the next axis which is orthogonal to first axis is identified and so on.

C) Finding Principal Components
Using Singular Vector Decomposition, a matrix can be broken into 3 components : U , sigma , Transpose ( V )  ( np.linalg.svd )
Transpose ( V ) contains the principal components

Note : sklearn PCA takes care of centring the data around origin, if not using it, centre the data yourself

D) Projecting the data
Compute dot product of Training Datset with 
Wd ( First d components of transpose (V))

Explained Variance Ratio : Proportion of datasets variance that lies along each axis 

Choosing the dimension : Try to capture total of 95% of the variance of the dataset

Incremental PCA :
	- SVD calculation requires whole of training set to fit in memory 
	- Instead split training into batches and feed to the IPCA algorithm

Randomized PCA : 
	- Quickly finds an approximation of the first d components using stochastic algorithm

Kernel PCA :
	- A technique to map instance into a high dimensional space enabling non linear classification.

LLE ( Locally Linear Embedding ) :
	- Uses Manifold Learning
	- First learns how each training instance linearly relates to closest neighbours
	- Then it finds lower dimension where this can be preserved

Understanding PCA (Principal Components Analysis)

Variance is both our friend and an enemy :
Enemy - More Variance is harder to predict or explain
Friend -  To build a good model, we need features with nonzero covariance 

PCA helps in finding the ideal set of feature required to explain the data. Ideal set of features will have follwoing 3 properties
	1. High Variance 
	2. Uncorrelated (High Correlation causes Multicollinearity )
	3. Not that many

How does PCA work ?
	1. Find the strongest underlying trend
	2. Find second strongest trend which is uncorrelated with first trend.
	3. Keep calculating till 95% of the variance can be expressed by projecting the data on these orthogonal components

Without domain expertise, we lose a lot of interpretability of the model.

A One-Stop Shop for Principal Component Analysis

2 main ways to achieve Dimensionality Reduction :
A) Feature Elimination - Drop the features to reduce feature space, but we eliminate any benefits those dropped feature would bring
B) Feature Extraction - Developing new features as combination of old features to reduce dimension and drop those new features which contributes the least. ( old features are still present in other new variables )

When PCA ?
	- Want to reduce variables but not able to identify which ones ?
	- Do you want to ensure independence between variables
	- Are you okay with less interpretability ?

How PCA works ?
	- Calculate a matrix which summarizes variable relations
	- Break the matrix into Direction and Magnitude
	- Transform the original data to align with the direction of vectors ordered by their importance/magnitude 

Steps :
	- Seperate dependent and independent variables into X and Y
	-  Centre each variable around its mean
	-  Decide on whether or not to standardize ? Do it if the importance (magnitude) is independent o of the variance. ( Z be the transformed Matrix )
	- Calculate the covariance matrix  : Transpose ( Z ) * Z
	- Calculate the eigenvalues and eigen vectors of covariance matrix  : Using Eigen Decomposition 
	First matrix gives Eigen Vectors and Second matrix gives Eigen Values as Diagonal elements
	- Sort Eigen Vectors based on Eigen Values in decreasing manner and select 'd' columns (Call this Px vector )
	- Calculate the dot product :  Z * Px ( data in transformed space )
	- Since Eigen Vectors are independent , the new features in transformed space will be orthogonal and independent

Methods to determine number of features to keep/drop:
	1. Pick an arbitrarily number of dimensions
	2. Pick a threshold of variance explained by set of eigen vectors, and drop the rest
	3. Calculate variance explained by each feature and construct a scree plot to get cumulative proportion of variance explained and find the elbow

Why does it work ?
	- Covariance Matrix captures how each variable is associated with other
	- Eigen Vectors gives direction and Eigen Values gives importance of each direction
	- Lots of variability in one direction is signal and less variability in other is noise

Extensions used : Principal Component Regression and Kernel PCA



Implementation of PCA in Python follows the following steps :

	1. Standardize and Normalize the data.
	2. Compute the covariance matrix of the features from the dataset.
	3. Perform eigen decomposition on the covariance matrix. ( Alternate use of SVD )
	4. Order the eigenvectors in decreasing order based on the magnitude of their corresponding eigenvalues.
	5. Determine k, the number of top principal components to select.
	6. Construct the projection matrix from the chosen number of top principal components.
	7. Compute the new k-dimensional feature space.

Link References :
	1. A Step-By-Step Introduction to PCA
	2. A Complete Guide to Principal Component Analysis — PCA in Machine Learning
	3. Implementing PCA in Python
	4. Python Documentation for PCA within the sklearn library
	5. PCA Explanation on AnalyticsVidhya

Detailed ( Go through when you have Time )
A Tutorial on Principal Components Analysis
